rearranged some ssl details, prevent dup info, add clarity (#297)
KxSystems/docs: docs/kb/ssl.md

    libssl-1_1.dll       libcrypto-1_1.dll        w32 build
    ```

### Keys/Certificates

Since TLS uses certificates, prior to enabling TLS in a kdb+ server, ensure that you have the necessary certificates in place. 

The minimum for a TLS-enabled server is to provide a certificate and its associated key, both in PEM format. 

> To locate these files, q will use the default path as reported by the `openssl version -d` command as a base, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To locate these files, q uses the default path as reported by the `openssl version -d` command as a base, e.g.
```

```bash
$ openssl version -d
OPENSSLDIR: "/opt/local/etc/openssl"
```

> Configuration of keys/certificates and checks performed are controlled by the following [environment variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration of keys/certificates and checks performed is controlled by the following [environment variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable)
```

!!! info "KX first"

    Since V3.6, kdb+ gives preference to the `KX_` prefix for the `SSL_*` environment variables to avoid clashes with other OpenSSL based products.

    For example, the value for `` getenv`KX_SSL_CERT_FILE`` has a higher precedence than `` getenv`SSL_CERT_FILE`` for determining config.

#### SSL_CERT_FILE

The certificate file. This must be in PEM format and must be sorted starting with the subject's certificate (actual client or server certificate), followed by intermediate CA certificates if applicable, and ending at the highest level (root).

Default value is `<OPENSSLDIR>/server-crt.pem`

#### SSL_CA_CERT_FILE

> A file of certificate authority (CA) certificates in PEM format. The file can contain several CA certificates identified by

Reviewer: Simon, can you re-phrase this? Do you mean:

```suggestion
A file containing certificate authority (CA) certificates in PEM format. The file can contain several CA certificates identified by
```

```
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
... (CA certificate in base64 encoding) ...
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

> sequences. Before, between, and after the certificates text is allowed which can be used e.g. for descriptions of the certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sequences. Text is allowed before, between, and after the certificates; it can be used, for example, for descriptions of the certificates.
```

Default value is `<OPENSSLDIR>/cacert.pem`

#### SSL_CA_CERT_PATH

A directory containing certificate authority (CA) certificates in PEM format.

Default value is `<OPENSSLDIR>`

#### SSL_KEY_FILE

Private key in PEM format.

Default value is `<OPENSSLDIR>/server-key.pem`

#### SSL_CIPHER_LIST

> The default cipher list is set to the `Intermediate compatibility (default)`
> [as recommended by Mozilla.org](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Server_Side_TLS#Intermediate_compatibility_.28default.29),
> and you may override this, to reduce the list to whatever your IT security policy requires.
> 
> Default value is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default cipher list is set to the `Intermediate compatibility (default)`
[as recommended by Mozilla.org](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Server_Side_TLS#Intermediate_compatibility_.28default.29). You may override this, to reduce the list to whatever your IT security policy requires.

Default value is
```

-   `REQUESTONLY` (since 4.1t 2024.02.07) server requests a client certificate but allows the connection if the client certificate is missing or invalid
-   `IFPRESENT` (since 4.1t 2024.02.07) server requests a client certificate and terminates the connection if an invalid certificate is provided; the server continues if the certificate is missing or valid

#### SSL_VERIFY_SERVER

Controls the processing of certificates from a server. Checks the X509 certificate the peer presented by verifying the server’s certificate against a trusted source, using the certificates from `SSL_CA_CERT_FILE` or `SSL_CA_CERT_PATH` to verify the server’s certificate.
In the interests of not interrupting service, verification of certificates accepts expired certificates.

If the verification process fails, the TLS/SSL handshake is immediately terminated with an alert message containing the reason for the verification failure. 
If no server certificate is sent, because an anonymous cipher is used, processing is ignored.

Default value is `YES`.

### Checking Configuration

Configured TLS settings for a kdb+ process can be viewed with [`(-26!)[]`](../basics/internal.md#-26x-ssl).

## Certificates

> If you don’t have a certificate, you can create a self-signed certificate using the `openssl` program. An example script to do so follows, which you should customize as necessary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don’t have a certificate, you can create a self-signed certificate using the `openssl` program. An example script to do so follows; customize as necessary.
```

# create server private key
openssl genrsa -out server-private-key.pem 2048
# create servers certificate signing request (CSR)
# CSR contains the common name(s) you want your certificate to secure, information about your company, and your public key (taken from provided private key)
openssl req -new -sha256 -key server-private-key.pem -subj /C=US/ST=CA/L=Somewhere/O=Someone/CN=Foobar -out server.csr
# create X509 certificate for the server (signed by CA)
openssl x509 -req -in server.csr -CA ca-cert.pem -CAkey ca-private-key.pem -CAcreateserial -out server-cert.pem -days 365 -sha256

# create client private key
openssl genrsa -out client-private-key.pem 2048
# create clients certificate signing request (CSR)
# CSR contains the common name(s) you want your certificate to secure, information about your company, and your public key (taken from provided private key)
openssl req -new -sha256 -key client-private-key.pem -subj /C=US/ST=CA/L=Somewhere/O=Someone/CN=Foobar -out client.csr
# create X509 certificate for the client (signed by CA)
openssl x509 -req -in client.csr -CA ca-cert.pem -CAkey ca-private-key.pem -CAcreateserial -out client-cert.pem -days 365 -sha256
```

> using this script the server settings can be configured as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this script the server settings can be configured as:
```

```bash
$ export SSL_CERT_FILE=$HOME/certs/server-cert.pem
$ export SSL_KEY_FILE=$HOME/certs/server-private-key.pem
$ export KX_SSL_CA_CERT_FILE=$HOME/certs/ca-cert.pem 
```
with the client as:
```bash
$ export SSL_CERT_FILE=$HOME/certs/client-cert.pem 
$ export SSL_KEY_FILE=$HOME/certs/client-private-key.pep
$ export KX_SSL_CA_CERT_FILE=/tmp/new/ca-cert.pem
```

:fontawesome-brands-github:
[mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert) is a simple tool for making locally-trusted development certificates.

!!! warning "Secure your certificates"

    Store your certificates outside of the directories accessible from within kdb+, otherwise remote users can easily steal your server’s key file! 

## TLS Server Mode

> Once the certificates are in place, and the environment variables set, TLS Server Mode can be enabled through the [command-line option -E](../basics/cmdline.md#-e-tls-server-mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the certificates are in place, and the environment variables are set, TLS Server Mode can be enabled through the [command-line option -E](../basics/cmdline.md#-e-tls-server-mode).
```

'conn. OS reports: Protocol not available
```

> ## Connection Info

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connection information
```
